Dashboard specs (#286)
PrestaShop/prestashop-specs: content/1.7/back-office/dashboard/dashboard-view.md

> ---

Reviewer: Could you rename the file dashboard instead of dashboard-view ?

> title: Dashboard view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Dashboard
```

weight: 1
---

> # Dashboard view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Dashboard
```

> Dashboard is the first default page on the back office, in this page the shop performance is displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dashboard is the default page of the back office, it gives a summary of the shop's daily activities at a glance.
```

> 

Reviewer: The dashboard is divided into 4 main areas: a horizontal bar, and three columns.

> ## Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Demo mode
```

>  - **Demo mode**: this is a toggle switch, it can turn on or off demo mode stats. When in demo mode shows fake stats, when demo mode is turned off, shows the real stats in the dashboard. Has a tooltip: "This mode displays sample data so you can try your dashboard without real numbers."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Demo mode**: This toggle allows to enable or disable the stats of the demo data stats. By default, it is disabled. The following tooltip is displayed: "This mode displays sample data so you can try your dashboard without real numbers."
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Horizontal bar

```

> Below there is a timeline range which can be modified to show the dashboard according to the needed timeline. It can be turned on for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the top of the Dashboard, a single bar allows choosing the period of time for the currently displayed dashboard statistics. The following options are available:
```

>  - **Day**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Day**: This is the current day

>  - **Month**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Month**: The current month
```

>  - **Year** - by default it is set to a year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Year**: The current year (selected by default)
```

>  - **Day-1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Day-1**: The previous day
```

>  - **Month-1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Month-1**: The previous month
```

>  - **Year-1**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Year-1**: The previous year
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choosing an option updates all the blocks of content that are on the Dashboard so that they display data for the chosen period of time only. Blocks that are not stats-based do not change.
```

> On the right a calendar date selection is displayed (the date depends on which time frame is selected for the dashboard), when pressed on it, the calendar extends.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the right, a date picker allows selecting a precise date selection. By default, the date range depends on which time frame is selected. 
```

> After the calendar is extended, new row appears with 4 fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the calendar is extended, 2 fields "from" and "to" for date ranges are displayed. In order to choose a period of time, you can either click the first and last date of that period in the calendar or type the dates in the YYYY-MM-DD format in the text boxes.
```

> In the first 2 fields dates are present, you can edit the date, select the year, month and days from which to which you want the data to be loaded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> On the right there is a field "Date range", has 2 fields "from" and "to" for date inputs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> There is also a checkbox "Compare to", when pressed, a new row appears with the same 2 fields for dates, on the right there's a drop field, which allows to select the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two periods of time can be compared together by checking the "Compare to" box. 
Once checked, the second period can be selected either through the same 2 fields "from" and "to" or through the drop-down allowing to select:
 - Previous period
 - Previous year
 - Custom

If a personalized range is indicated in the "from" and "to" fields, then the option "custom" is automatically selected.

When comparing two periods, some of the content blocks will update to indicate the evolution of the data.
```

>  - **Previous period**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Previous year**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Custom**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If the selected dates are incorrect, will show the following error: "The selected date range is not valid."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the selected dates are incorrect, the following error message is displayed: "The selected date range is not valid."
```

> ## Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Call to action
```

2 buttons are located at the bottom:
 

>  - **Cancel** - when pressed, closes the tab, displayed the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Cancel** - Closes the tab and keeps the previous selection.
```

>  - **Apply** - when pressed, closes the tab, displayed the result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Apply** - Closes the tab and displays the result for the selection.
```

> ## Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Columns
```

> By default there are 8 fields in the dashboard:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is 2 columns in the dashboard: 
- the left column: this column presents the data from the Dashboard Activity module
- the central column: there are three blocks of content in this column, which are handled by modules
```

Reviewer: Sorry, I forgot to tell you that the right column with the blocks "prestashop news", "prestashop update", and "we stay by your side" will disappear in the V8

>  - **TIPS & UPDATES**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Dashboard**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **PrestaShop News**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Activity overview**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **PRESTASHOP UPDATES**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **We stay by your side!**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Forecast**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Products and Sales**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Tips & Updates

Reviewer: This block will disappear also in the V8

> # Tips & Updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> First section in the dashboard, has the following text: "Connect to your account right now to enjoy updates (security and features) on all of your modules. Once you are connected, you will also enjoy weekly tips directly from your back office."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> A button in the section is displayed: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Connect to a prestashop marketplace**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - When pressed, opens a new window, a text is displayed in the window: "Link your shop to your Addons account to automatically receive important updates for the modules you purchased. Don't have an account yet ? Sign up now", in the same page with 2 fields for logging in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>      - **Email address** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>      - **Password** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Below the 2 fields there is a checkobx for "Remember me", and a hyperlink "Forgot your password?".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> When pressed on "Forgot your password?" redirects to a new page to reset the password.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The button to save the changes is displayed between the 2 last fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>  - **Let's go!**: When pressed, closes the new window, redirects back to the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> If the credentials input are incorrect, will show the following error: "Error! PrestaShop was unable to log in to Addons Please check your credentials and your Internet connection".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Central column
### Dashboard
```

> ## Call to action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Call to action
```

> On the top right of this field there are 2 buttons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the top right of this block there are 2 buttons:
```

>  - **Configure** - redirects to the "Average bank fees per payment method" page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Configure** - opens a new page where various expenses of the store can be configured, in order to better indicate the trends.
```

Reviewer: I let you specify the configure page in a new file and add the link here

>  - **Refresh** - refreshes the stats of the shop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Refresh** - refreshes the stats of this block.
```

> ## Fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Tabs
```

> From left to right these are the fields displayed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following tabs are displayed and can be selected to display the evolution.
```

>  - **Sales** - displays the sales number in the default currency Tax excl. Has a tooltip: "Sum of revenue (excl. tax) generated within the range by orders considered validated.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Sales** - displays the sales amount in the default currency tax excluded. A tooltip is displayed: "Sum of revenue (excl. tax) generated within the range by orders considered validated.".
```

>  - **Orders** - displays the orders number. Has a tooltip: "Total number of orders received within the date range that are considered validated.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Orders** - displays the number of orders within the date range. A tooltip is displayed: "Total number of orders received within the date range that are considered validated.".
```

>  - **Cart Value** - displays the average cart value in default currency Tax excl. Has a tooltip: "Average Cart Value is a metric representing the value of an average order within the date range. It is calculated by dividing Sales by Orders.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Cart Value** - displays the average cart value in the default currency tax excluded within the date range. A tooltip is displayed: "Average Cart Value is a metric representing the value of an average order within the date range. It is calculated by dividing Sales by Orders.".
```

>  - **Visits** - displays the shop visits number. Has a tooltip: "Total number of visits within the date range. A visit is the period of time a user is actively engaged with your website.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Visits** - displays the number of visits within the date range. A tooltip is displayed: "Total number of visits within the date range. A visit is the period of time a user is actively engaged with your website.".
```

>  - **Conversion Rate** - displays the conversion rate in percentage. Has a tooltip: "Ecommerce Conversion Rate is the percentage of visits that resulted in an validated order.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Conversion Rate** - displays the conversion rate in percentage. A tooltip is displayed: "Ecommerce Conversion Rate is the percentage of visits that resulted in an validated order.".
```

>  - **Net Profit** - displays the net profit in the default currency Tax excl. Has a tooltip: "Net profit is a measure of the profitability of a venture after accounting for all Ecommerce costs. You can provide these costs by clicking on the configuration icon right above here.".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Net Profit** - displays the net profit in the default currency tax excluded. A tooltip is displayed: "Net profit is a measure of the profitability of a venture after accounting for all Ecommerce costs. You can provide these costs by clicking on the configuration icon right above here.".
```

> Below there is a graph that can represent each field separately, pressing on one of the fields above will result in graph changing the measures of the graph by the field and the statistics of it. Every selected field has different colouurs which the field gets painted, and the line in the graph. For each field there are 2 separate graphs, one for current period, and the other for previous period. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After selecting a tab, the corresponding graphic is displayed. When hovering the graphic with the mouse, the details are displayed.
Additionally, when comparing two time periods, it displays the evolution of each figure in percentages.
```

> When the mouse pointer is on the graph, an additional small table appears listing the exact date and the metrics that it's currently showing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Prestashop News

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This field displays the news from PrestaShop. By default 2 latest news are displayed with the date of release, and option to "read more" redirects to the article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Also, there is a link at the bottom "Find more news" which will open a new page -> https://www.prestashop.com/en/blog where all the articles are stored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> # Activity overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Left column
### Activity overview
```

> ## Call to action 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Call to action 
```

> On the top right of this field there are 2 buttons:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the top right of this block there are 2 buttons:
```

>  - **Configure** - redirects to the "Average bank fees per payment method" page.

Reviewer: On my side, I am not redirected on another page, I stay on the dashboard when I click on configure

>  - **Refresh** - refreshes the stats of the shop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - **Refresh** - refreshes the stats of the Activity Overview block.
```
